{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1053{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.21.2510;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\lang29\b\f0\fs22 Teleopti License Agreement\par
\b0 PLEASE READ THIS DOCUMENT CAREFULLY BEFORE INSTALLING AND USING THE SOFTWARE.  BY INSTALLING THE SOFTWARE, LICENSEE IS AGREEING TO BE BOUND BY THE TERMS OF THIS LICENSE.  IF LICENSEE DOES NOT AGREE WITH THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS LICENSE, NO RIGHTS UNDER THIS LICENSE IS GRANTED TO LICENSEE, AND TELEOPTI AB SHALL HAVE THE RIGHT TO IMMEDIATELY TERMINATE ANY BUSINESS AGREEMENT BETWEEN TELEOPTI AB AND LICENSEE OF WHICH THIS LICENSE IS A PART, WITHOUT LIABILITY TO LICENSEE.\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b 1.\tab License Grant\b0\par
Teleopti AB, org.no. 556523-5925, a Swedish corporation with it principal place of business at PO Box 721, SE-182 17 Danderyd, Sweden ("Teleopti"), hereby grants to Licensee a nonexclusive, nontransferable, worldwide, revocable license to install and use the software application(s) licensed from Teleopti or a Teleopti distributor or reseller ("Teleopti Products"), in object code form only, and solely for internal use within Licensee's own business for the scope and functionality for which Licensee has registered and paid the applicable license fee. Licensee may make one (1) back-up copy of the Teleopti Products in machine-readable form, provided such copy is used for back-up only and provided all copyright information contained on the original is included in the copy. The use of the Teleopti Products is subject to payment of the license fee and the fulfilment of all requirements stipulated in this License.\par
\b 2.\tab Ownership, Restrictions on Use\b0\par
Except as expressly permitted by mandatory applicable law and this License, Licensee agrees not to, either by itself or through any parent, subsidiary, affiliate, agent or other third party, copy, modify, decompile, reverse engineer, create derivative works from, disassemble, or otherwise discover or attempt to reconstruct, identify any source code, underlying ideas or algorithms of the Teleopti Products by any means, or to sell, distribute, rent, lease, or loan the Teleopti Products, in whole or part or knowingly take any action that would cause the Teleopti Products to be placed in the public domain. Teleopti and its licensors and/or suppliers, reserves and holds all right, title, and interest in and to the Teleopti Products and related documentation not explicitly licensed herein, including without limitation all copyright and other intellectual property rights, howsoever arising, and in whatever media, whether or not registered, including patents, trade marks, service marks, database rights, trade names, registered, designs and any applications for the protection or registration of these rights and all renewals and extensions thereof throughout the world. Licensee shall not remove or obscure any copyright notices or proprietary legends contained within the Teleopti Products. \par
\b 3.\tab Support, Software provided under Maintenance Offerings\par
\b0 Licensee may subscribe for Teleopti's or Teleopti's distributors' or resellers' Support Offerings in effect from time to time. Any fixes, patches, service packs and/or new versions provided pursuant to such Support Offering shall be governed by this License. This License does not cover new products which are provided for a separate licensee fee and under separate license agreements. Further, the warranty provision in section 6 does not cover fixes, patches or service packs distributed under any Support Offering, such software is provided AS IS without any warranty.\par
\b 4.\tab License Fees\b0\par
Licensee shall pay the license fee for the Teleopti Products stipulated by Teleopti from time to time, or if the Teleopti Products is distributed through a Teleopti distributor or reseller, the fee stipulated by such distributor or reseller. Any payment by Licensee pursuant to this License shall be made according to Teleopti's reasonable payment instruction in effect from time to time, or if applicable Teleopti's distributor's or reseller's payment instruction. All amounts payable under this License are exclusive of all taxes and charges. Licensee shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes payable with respect to this License, including but not limited to V.A.T. or any import charges (if applicable), other than taxes based on Teleopti's net income. Should Licensee fail to pay any amount when due, Teleopti or as the case may be Teleopti's distributors or resellers, shall in addition to any other remedy available, be entitled to receive all costs of collection plus interest on all unpaid amounts (before and after judgment until fully paid), calculated at the lesser of 18% per annum or the maximum allowed by law.\par
\b 5.\tab Term and Termination\par
\b0 Licensee's rights under this License will terminate automatically without notice from Teleopti if Licensee fails to comply with any term(s) of this License.  This License can further be terminated by Licensee at any time unless Licensee and Teleopti or Teleopti's distributor or reseller has agreed for a minimum period Upon termination, Licensee shall destroy all copies of the Teleopti Products in Licensee's possession, and all rights and obligations of the parties shall terminate forthwith except Licensee's liability for amounts owed to Teleopti. No repayment of license fees paid in advance will be made.\par
\b 6.\tab Warranty\b0\par
Teleopti warrants that the Teleopti Products hereunder will perform in substantial conformance to the functional and system specifications for and provided by Teleopti for such Teleopti Products during the warranty period. The warranty period applicable to the Teleopti Products is ninety (90) days, commencing on the date the Teleopti Products is accepted or installed and used commercially by the Licensee, whichever occurs first. Teleopti's sole obligation hereunder shall be in Teleopti's discretion, to refund any License Fee paid by Licensee to Teleopti for any defective Teleopti Products, or to replace any defective Teleopti Products with software, which substantially conforms to Teleopti's applicable published functionality specifications for such licensed Teleopti Products. Teleopti shall not be liable under this warranty if its testing and examination disclose that the alleged defect in the Teleopti Products does not exist or was caused by Licensee's or user's or any third person's misuse, negligence, improper installation or testing, unauthorized attempts to support, or any other cause beyond the range of the intended use.  The foregoing remedy constitutes Licensee's sole and exclusive remedy related to any breach of any warranty related to the Teleopti Products. To the fullest extent allowed by applicable law, the warranties and remedies set forth in this License are exclusive and in lieu of all other warranties or conditions, express or implied, either in fact or by operation of law, statutory or otherwise, including but not limited to warranties, terms or conditions of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose and satisfactory quality, all of which are expressly disclaimed.  Teleopti's warranties herein run only to Licensee, and are not extended to any third parties which, for the avoidance of doubt, includes any agents of Licensee or end users. Teleopti neither assumes nor authorizes any other person to assume for it any other liability in connection with the licensing, support or use of the Teleopti Products, and Teleopti makes no warranties or conditions whatsoever for any non-standard software supplied by it hereunder.\par
\b 7.\tab Patent and Copyright Indemnity\par
\b0 Teleopti shall, at its own expense, defend or settle any suit or proceeding that is instituted against Licensee to the extent such suit or proceeding alleges that any Teleopti Products licensed by Teleopti hereunder infringes any patent right or copyright of a third party, and shall pay all damages awarded therein against Licensee or agreed upon in settlement by Teleopti; provided that Licensee (i) gives Teleopti  immediate notice in writing of any such suit, proceeding or threat thereof; (ii) permits Teleopti  sole control, through counsel of Teleopti's choice, to answer the charge of infringement and defend and/or settle such suit; and (iii) gives Teleopti  all the needed information, reasonable assistance and authority, at Teleopti's expense, to enable Teleopti to defend or settle such suit.\par
The above provision shall not apply to, and Teleopti shall have no liability or obligation for, any infringement arising from the following:  (i) any modification, servicing or addition made to the Teleopti Products by anyone other than Teleopti ; (ii) the use of such a Teleopti Products as a part of or in combination with any devices, parts or software not provided by Teleopti; (iii) compliance with Licensee's design requirements or specifications; (iv) the use of other than a current unaltered release of the Teleopti Products available from Teleopti; or (v) the use of such Teleopti Products to practice any method or process which does not occur wholly within the Teleopti Products or (vi) any use of the Teleopti Products outside the scope of the license granted in section 1.  This exclusion applies to the extent that the infringement would have been avoided but for such modification, combination, compliance with specifications, use of other than the current release, or practice of such method or process.\par
In the event the use of any Teleopti Products purchased from Teleopti be enjoined, or if Teleopti believes the Teleopti Products infringes or is likely to infringe any third party rights, or in the event Teleopti  wishes to minimize its potential liability hereunder, Teleopti may, at its sole option and expense and without any cost or harm to Licensee:  (i) procure for Licensee the right to use such Teleopti Products;  (ii) substitute a functionally equivalent, non-infringing unit of the Teleopti Products;  (iii) modify such Teleopti Products so that it no longer infringes but remains functionally equivalent; or  (iv) if none of the foregoing are commercially feasible, take back such Teleopti Products and refund the purchase price paid by Licensee for such Teleopti Products, depreciated over a five (5) year period using the straight line method.\par
\b 8.\tab Limitation of Liability \par
\b0 In no event shall Teleopti be liable for indirect, incidental, special, punitive, consequential, or exemplary damages, of any kind whatsoever or for loss of or recovery of data, or any costs of reprogramming or reproducing any program or data stored in or used with Teleopti Products, or any damages caused by corrupt or inadequate data, arising out of or in connection with this License, regardless of the form of the action, whether in contract, tort (including negligence), strict liability or otherwise, even if it has been advised of the possibility of such damages.  In addition, Teleopti's total liability to Licensee under this License shall be limited to one hundred percent (100%) of the license fees actually paid by Licensee for the license of the Teleopti Product causing the damage.  Licensee releases Teleopti from all obligations, liability, claims or demands in excess of the limitation.  This limitation shall survive and apply even if any limited warranty or remedy hereunder is found to have failed of its essential purpose.\par
\b 9.\tab Confidentiality\par
\b0 As used herein, "Confidential Information" means all non-public information, whether in oral, written or other tangible form that the party disclosing the information (the "Disclosing Party") designates as being confidential or which, under the circumstances surrounding disclosure, the receiving party (the "Recipient") knows or has reason to know should be treated as confidential, including without limitation, the terms and conditions of this License.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, Confidential Information does not include information that:  (a) is or becomes generally available to the public other than (i) as a result of a disclosure by Recipient or its employees or any other person who directly or indirectly receives such information from Recipient or its employees or (ii) in violation of a confidentiality obligation to Disclosing Party known to Recipient; (b) is or becomes available to Recipient on a non-confidential basis from a source which is entitled to disclose it to Recipient; (c) was developed by employees or agents of the Recipient independently of and without reference to any information communicated to Recipient by the Disclosing Party; or (d) is required by law to be disclosed by the Recipient.  A disclosure of Confidential Information which is (x) in response to a valid order by a court or other governmental body, (y) otherwise required by law, or (z) necessary to establish the rights of either party under this License, shall not be considered to be a breach of this License or a waiver of confidentiality for other purposes; provided however, that the party disclosing such information shall provide prompt written notice thereof to the other party to enable it to seek a protective order or otherwise prevent such disclosure. Recipient shall hold the Confidential Information in confidence, disclosing the Confidential Information only to such of Recipient's employees, contractors and advisors who have a need to know for the purpose of fulfilling Recipient's obligations under this License.  Recipient shall advise any such individuals that the Confidential Information is confidential and that by receiving such information such individuals are agreeing to be bound by terms substantially similar to and no less restrictive than the terms of this Section 9, and to not use such information for any purpose other than authorized herein.  Without the Disclosing Party's prior written consent, Recipient shall not, and shall direct such individuals not to, disclose the Confidential Information in whole or in part, except to the extent compelled by law (subject to the above provisions).  Recipient shall employ all reasonable steps to protect the Confidential Information from unauthorized or inadvertent disclosure or use, including, without limitation, all steps that it takes to protect its own information that it considers a trade secret. Recipient agrees that the wrongful disclosure of Confidential Information will cause Discloser irreparable injury that is inadequately compensable in monetary damages; accordingly, Discloser shall be entitled to injunctive relief in any court of competent jurisdiction for the breach or threatened breach of this Section, in addition to any other remedies at law or equity.\par
\b 10.\tab General Provisions\par
10.1.\tab Injunctive Relief\par
\b0 Licensee acknowledges that, due to the nature of the Teleopti Products and the inherent difficulty of adequately protecting the proprietary rights of Teleopti in the licensed Teleopti Products, a breach of this License will cause Teleopti irreparable harm for which money damages would be inadequate. Therefore, Licensee agrees that Teleopti is entitled to seek injunctive relief to protect its rights under this License, in addition to any and all remedies available at law.\par
\b 10.2.\tab Export Compliance\par
\b0 Licensee will be responsible for compliance with applicable export control rules, regulations, directives or laws with respect to its use or disposition of the Teleopti Products and any related technical data, and will not export or re-export Teleopti Products or any related technical data without first obtaining a license from applicable export or regulatory agency as required by law.\par
\b 10.3.\tab Relationship of the Parties\par
\b0 Nothing stated in this License will be construed as creating the relationships of joint ventures, partners, employer and employee, franchisor and franchisee, master and servant, or principal and agent.  This License is made for the benefit of the parties to it and (where applicable) their successors and permitted assigns and is not intended to benefit or be enforceable by anyone else.\par
\b 10.4.\tab Assignment\par
\b0 Licensee shall not assign this License or delegate any of its rights, duties or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of Teleopti.  Any attempt to do so without such consent is void. Teleopti may assign this License or its rights, interests and obligations under this License to another party in connection with a merger with or acquisition by or sale of all of its assets, or to an affiliated company. A person who is not a party to this License has no right under this License.\par
\b 10.5.\tab Waivers\par
\b0 No waiver of any default shall be effective unless it is expressly evidenced in written form signed by Teleopti and Licensee.  The waiver of any one default shall not waive subsequent defaults of the same or different kind or continuing defaults after demand for strict compliance.\par
\par
10.6.\tab Severability\par
In the event that any provision of this License shall be held by a court of competent jurisdiction or an administrative authority of either international or national jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable, the remaining portions of this License shall remain in full force and effect and be construed so as to best effectuate the intention of the parties in executing it.\par
\b 10.7.\tab Entire Agreement\par
\b0 This License constitutes the entire agreement between the two parties hereto with respect to its subject matter and any and all written or oral agreements heretofore existing between the parties hereto with respect to its subject matter are expressly cancelled. Any modifications of this License must be in writing and signed by both parties hereto.  Each party acknowledges and agrees that in entering into this agreement it has not relied on any undertaking, promise, assurance, statement, representation, warranty or understanding (whether in writing or not) of any person (whether party to this agreement or not) relating to the subject matter of this agreement other than as expressly set out in this License.\par
\b 10.8.\tab Governing Law, Dispute Resolution\par
\b0 This License shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of Sweden, excluding its conflict of law provisions.  All disputes arising out of or in connection with the License shall be finally settled under the Rules of Arbitration of the International Chamber of Commerce by one arbitrator appointed in accordance with the said Rules. The arbitral tribunal shall be composed of one arbitrator, the place of arbitration shall be Stockholm and the language to be used in the arbitral proceedings English. \par
\b 10.9.\tab Notices\par
\b0 All notices and demands of any kind which either Teleopti or Licensee may be required or wish to serve upon the other under the terms of this License shall be in writing and shall be served by personal service, by fax or by recorded delivery post at the address of the receiving party set forth in this License (or at such different addresses as may be designated for such purpose by such party by written notice to the other party); all notices or demands given by personal service shall be effective upon receipt, all notices or demands given by fax or post shall be deemed given upon sending. All notices should be in English.\par
}
 